# slim-redux-react 0.2: Redesigned & async change triggers, computations, better API, legacy middleware and a slack #channel!
**TODO:** Cover all of these topics in the headline!


`slim-redux-react` version 0.2 is here and it comes bearing gifts!  
But first a sad announcement....

**Good luck for your future endavours, payload validation!**  
Sadly we had to fire payload validation. He was a valued member of our team, but unfortunately he just didn't pull his weight.  
Between us: We realized that if anyone really needed payload validation, then they probably fucked up when feeding the data into their change triggers.

So we got rid of him.  
Good luck for the future dude!

# News #1: Async change triggers
One of the ideas behind *change triggers* was to make it clear that they really do change the state. No side-effects, no funny business, just straight up state changes.  

So instead of intercepting actions to trigger async code (i.e. through redux-thunk), the idea was to write your async code independently of redux, and pass the neccessary change triggers to async functions (like in the [Simple vs. complex container recipe](https://github.com/aGuyNamedJonas/slim-redux-react#heavy-light-container-components)).

That became cumbersome though after a while. I would subscribe to a bunch of change triggers in my complex containers, and then pass those to the async functions I would call from inside of my complex container.  
I found myself writing the names of the change triggers over and over again.

So we're proud to announce: **Async change triggers**!

Here's how it works:

```javascript
// async/todo.js
import { asyncChangeTrigger } from 'slim-redux-react';
import { addTodo, addTodoConfirmed } from '../changes/todo';

// First argument is a change trigger mapping like in slimReduxReact()
export const addTodo = asyncChangeTrigger({ addTodo, addTodoConfirmed }, (id, title) => {
  // Call our first change trigger (also notice how change triggers now take arguments!)
  addTodo(id, title);

  fetch(`/v1/todos`, {
    method: 'post',
    /* ... */
  ).then(data => {
    // Calling our second change trigger to confirm we added the task on the server
    addTodoConfirmed(id);
  })
});

// components/TodoList.js
import { connect } from 'slim-redux-react';
import { addTodo } from '../async/todo';

// Our TodoList component
const TodoList = (props) => ( /* ... */ );

// When exporting the TodoList container we pass addTodo alongside other change triggers
export const connect(TodoList, { /* Subscriptions */ }, { addTodo })
```

So hopefully with this new feature writing async code that will trigger state changes becomes much easier and much less cluttered.


# News #2: Computations (aka subscriptions on steroids)
Subscriptions are great, and straight forward. But they're only good for basic scenarios. In this case we have also suggested the use of the [simple vs. complex container pattern](https://github.com/aGuyNamedJonas/slim-redux-react#heavy-light-container-components) for computing data but honestly: That felt like a half-baked solution.

Why can't we take a **bunch of subscriptions and calculate data off of those dynamically**?  
Well now you can! Here's how:  

```javascript
// computations/todo.js
import { computation } from 'slim-redux-react';

export const visibleTodos = computation({
  // Just a regular subscription mapping
  todos: 'state.todos',
  filter: 'state.filter'
},() => {
  // We return a single array of the visible todos
  if(filter === 'ALL') return todos;
  if(filter === 'OPEN') return todos.filter(todo => !todo.completed)
  if(filter === 'COMPLETED') return todos.filter(todo => todo.completed);
});

// components/TodoList.js
import { connect } from 'slim-redux-react';
import { visibleTodos } from '../computations/todo';

// Our TodoList component
const TodoList = (props) => ( /* ... */ );

// When exporting the TodoList container we pass visibleTodos alongside other subscriptions
export const connect(TodoList, { visibleTodos }, { /* (Async) change triggers */ })
```

Subscriptions on some serious amphetamines, ready to rave! We hope you like this new addition!


# News #3: Better API
Overall we tried to improve the API to be more usable, smarter and a lot more mature. The way that almost all parameters for API calls were pure objects sounded like a cool idea, but really it only gets you into some really deeply nested trouble when you forget a vital part of the argument object.  

So inspired by node.js we're now using parameters where we can.
Check out the new API documentation here: <Insert new API specs + links here>

### slimReduxReact() is now connect()
We're all used to `connect()`ing our react components to redux, it just makes sense that it's named `connect()`. So why did we have to name it `slimReduxReact()`?

I don't know. We fixed it though!

### Change triggers are no plain objects anymore
Change triggers now actually have to be exported using the `changeTrigger()` function from the `slim-redux-react` module.  
This is to ensure that we can double check for all required parameters in a change trigger. But more importantly: It makes new features like the async change triggers possible as the use of `changeTrigger()` makes it possible for the library to check whether it really did get change triggers passed in as the first argument.

### And moar!
Alright just details, but still - don't forget to check out the [updated API documentation](https://github.com/aGuyNamedJonas/slim-redux-react#api-reference).


# Get hacking, and get involved!
<OUTRO>
